the main purpose of this video is to
talk positively about why I think
patreon is a good thing to really extol
the virtues of patreon with absolutely
zero irony the caveat there being I
think it's worthwhile to talk about when
patreon is used correctly and when it is
used incorrectly and you'll see why I
use such such seemingly objective
sounding words I think there is a right
way and a wrong way to use patreon as a
crater we're gonna wrap that up in just
a couple of minutes before we get into
it I think I will reply verbally to a
few of the comments that's come into a
the video immediately prior to this one
one person wrote in to me saying quote I
don't quite understand why an
intermediary like patreon has to exist
person a likes the content that person B
produces and wants to financially
support them why does person C even need
to be involved why is there need to be
an intermediary so I think in this video
I'm going to give you an answer that
question um the level of trust you need
to have the level of commitment you need
to have to just take money put it in an
envelope and have it disappear into a
black hole just take money put it an
envelope and send it to the Green Party
or People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals and get nothing back get nothing
back no news no update no proof of what
has money that is a huge huge huge leap
for people to make and there are some
causes that inspire that kind of
commitment I'd say an easy example would
be save the whales save the elephants
where you can go out and give a rousing
speech and show a short documentary clip
and say hey this is us helping to nurse
this elephant back to health and
providing you know some kind of habitat
some kind of enclosure for this elephant
to live in donate your money now to help
to help
orphaned and injured elephants like this
very a moving very emotionally evocative
appeal for donations
some people will step forward take their
money put it an envelope
setteth you or if you just provide your
banking details that will send you a
bank transfer and expect nothing in
return
now you can guess even from how I'm
phrasing this I don't think that's a
good thing I don't really think that's a
positive side of human nature I don't
think that is a positive side of the
charity industry I think it's quite
dangerous and really self-destructive
for a lot of the people involved and
what patreon offers you is a much more
porous transparent meaningful and
interactive relationship between the
donor and the person or project being
funded so even for something like a book
project you know if you say okay donate
money I'm gonna write and it will
straight this book and then publish it
the ability for the donors to stay in
touch with you you could put up a daily
update or a weekly update I upload a lot
so most of my patreon subscribers
they're getting multiple multiple
messages per day on patreon I've just
been a mass uploader really the whole
last five years not worth getting the
why but maybe it's once a day or maybe
it's once a week hearing from that
person you haven't the opportunity to
talk to that person say okay well we
just had a conversation with the
illustrator we're trying to get the
illustrations ready for the book we ran
into this roadblock this illustrator at
first was really confident but then when
we started going into detail about the
three-dimensional perspective we wanted
for these illustrations they seemed like
they weren't confident doing it we're
gonna talk to another illustrator by the
way this is not a hypothetical example I
went through this exact process trying
to get an illustrator lined up for a
children's story book I'd written that's
that's in comparably different from an
incomparably better than the bad old
days of just taking your money putting
in an envelope and sending it off to
some political cause and then never
hearing back now if it's the example of
publishing a storybook how satisfied or
dissatisfied would you be if you donate
money and then five years later the
storybook materializes
you'll probably be angry and
disappointed even if the book turned out
great or what if it turns out not as you
had hoped maybe the book is kind of
mediocre like well I'd imagined it
looking like doctors ooh
and instead you know the approach these
guys took not what I was hoping for with
this book well if you have something
like patreon and let's say the book
project takes five years everyone
involved in supporting you is hearing
about and interacting with you
step-by-step as you go through these
disappointments and setbacks they're
seeing you make the decisions strategic
and artistic and aesthetic maybe their
ethical decisions - like oh yeah yeah
well at an earlier stage he thought it
would look like a dr. Seuss book but
then this happened and this happened
started working with a new art artist
and it ended up having more of a Disney
look let's say that your book ends with
you but they will have felt involved and
included and at least they had the
ability to complain at least they had
the ability to quit even maybe they had
the ability to ask for a refund I don't
know you know this type of porous
interactive transparent social media
platform makes the whole culture of
giving and receiving something much
different than it ever was in the past
and I had the experience in the bad old
days the bad old days before the
internet the internet just barely
existed title movie 1998 I remember in
the bad old days how awful it was to
even have to ask for donations for the
Green Party of Canada
there were people asking me and it's
like look if I donate money to this
political party what's gonna happen to
the money and what do I get
what's the reward okay you can preach to
me some abstract karmic notion of doing
good in the world I'm not interested in
your philosophical abstract idea of
karma I want results
I want outcomes I want accountability I
want transparency and yeah what that
kind of interaction I want to feel like
my donation matters in my opinion matter
is my perspective matters and even if
things go wrong I want to be there with
you seeing step-by-step what went wrong
and why so patreon is a really powerful
really meaningful transformation of the
donor recipient relationship this I've
already explained most of what I have to
say when I I now add the Kabat if it is
used correctly now when is it used
incorrectly showed it to haenyeo mania
who have no respect for under this
heading I signed up and donated money to
hennya of
she kind of bullied me into it said okay
and yeah I'll sign up for your patreon
group when I signed up for haenyeo
manias patreon if you don't know who
Hania Mania is she used to be a vegan
activist now she's like an international
travel and lifestyle blogger who doesn't
do vegan activism at all but she used to
be a being an activist I signed up for
her patreon and I was looking at a blank
screen nothing absolutely nothing no
talking to the audience no direction and
as an apology
you got this message saying hey now that
you join my patreon you can use this
link and join my special secret Facebook
group where I interact with patreon
supporters like to compensate for the
fact that she was aware that her page
round was a desert it was just empty
there was no effort into it so then I
clicked on that link to Facebook same
thing dead empty was a desert it was a
Tundra and there was nothing there she'd
be no effort so if you donated to her
patreon you get nothing absolutely
nothing the people who support me on
patreon they got all kinds of stuff good
bad or indifferent I mean just just
yesterday we recorded a 24 minute video
in response to one of my patreon
supporters asking me problems about her
personal life and I you know we really
sat down and took 24 minutes that to
answer this question so Sun is just a
personal emotional question I get sent
in Suns it's a political question I do a
lot of in-depth quality interaction with
my audience and they also just get
updates about what's going on in my life
like for a couple of days I didn't
upload any videos it was only a couple
of days because I was busy flying to
France taking care of my daughter and
recovering from jet lag so they get some
sense of interaction on going all the
time so be patreon in its format and
what it provides is a really really
positive thing and guess what that's
implicitly admitted by these so-called
free speech critics of patreon because
what they say in their critique is that
they want to do the same thing as
patreon they want to compete with page
runner they want to replace patreon they
just want to create a version of patreon
that reflects their political priorities
good luck you can try you can have a
right-wing patreon you can have a racist
patreon it's already been done I read
there's a website called hate Rhian with
an H so it's a pro hate Pro racist
version of patreon so who but this is
not really a criticism of the function
of patreon it's at a positive
appreciation of the function of patreon
is just a complaint that they want a
version of patreon with a different
political bias or with a different
ideological agenda they're not even
criticizing the idea of patreon having
an ideological agenda ok so another
comment I was going to reply to someone
objected to my my comparison of patreon
to a grocery store I said look grocery
store has to make decisions are we gonna
have this politically offensive magazine
for sale we're gonna have pornography
for sale and a grocery store will make
the decision not to carry pornography
even though they could earn money they
could maybe make more money by having
pornography on the store shelves because
it makes the grocery store look bad so
someone wrote in disagreeing with this
which is reasonable you can have your
your own opinion and he says no patreon
is only a payment processing service so
it is not reasonable to compare them to
a grocery store this is more like a bank
shutting down a pornography store on the
other side of town or something it's not
comparable to a cross restorer refusing
to carry porn now this is my reply I
said no patreon is a shop owned and
managed by individual people just the
same as the grocery store in this
respect and they decide selling this
product makes our shop look bad or makes
us seem disreputable as management
therefore we won't allow it on the store
shelves despite the fact that it would
earn us money they're making an ethical
decision as well as a PR decision as
well as a public relations decision the
public perception decision they are
making an ethical decision patreon lost
money by kicking out sargon they did it
because they think it's the right thing
to do and that's fine to remember they
make more money from one guy like Sargon
than a thousand
people like me I think they make more
money from Sargon than 10,000 small
people like me right
but patreon plays a really positive role
in my life and it's really changed the
way donor driven politics and filmmaking
and content creation works and if you
think patreon is so bad ask yourself
this question why did YouTube themselves
utterly fail to play this role that
patreon has played why isn't Google
Corporation playing this role why some
other entity rise up to play this role
in a limited way Kickstarter did for
sure patreon has competition from
Kickstarter I could fund a book project
illustrating a story book through
Kickstarter that is true but patreon
again for those who are willing to make
the commitment of time and a kind of
accountability just having this kind of
interaction with their audience patreon
is a tremendously positive step forward
compared to being with the Republican
Party and asking for donations or being
with the Green Party and asking for
donations or being with the Communist
Party and asking for donations believe
me both of my parents donated money to
the Communist Party this is a segue to
the next little cue anything I'm gonna
do here um to donating money getting
nothing back you have no sense of where
the money meant went or even even if
you're donating money to pay for
someone's lifestyle so that they can
afford rent and food and to live it's
their salary were you up you have no
feeling of where that money is going so
the old days of political campaign
finance or a really incredibly bleak
hustle compared to what we're now
capable of doing by page one and this
stuff it's all politics baby it is all
just as political as running for mayor
I'm not talking about purely artistic
projects on patreon there are people are
just painting beautiful pictures they
just want you to donate to to paint a
picture so now we're talking about here
this is all political sargon of akkad is
political
jordan Peterson's political me and my
channel and you'll see even more in the
year ahead
what I'm doing is political these are
political donations and there's no doubt
that patreon is a kind of political
grocery store it's only comparable to a
grocery store in one respect because the
groceries on the show
they're selling really our political
change so I got a comment from someone
using the name Raiden or Ryden he
comments the problem I see is blatant
bias against conservative ideas
I think these platforms are exhibiting
cowardice by caving in to the
disproportionately vocal social justice
warriors when you boycott them you're
showing the SGI doubles the SJW social
justice warriors you're showing that
they are not representative of the real
world okay so I disagree with this as
you as you can guess what I say in reply
is the principle being tested here is
simply a ban on one hate speech and to
abuse and bullying those are the two
principles here being tested in terms of
service right you're you the guy I'm
disagree with your item you are
implicitly admitting that conservative
ideology requires or entails hate speech
and bullying as defined strictly
speaking by patreon policy whereas non
conservative ideals
do not cross these lines think about it
think about what you're saying this
dispute is about people like sargon of
akkad
being guilty of hate speech and this
other category it gets less vague when
you read the fine print of being abusive
and bullying towards other people in
Internet why do conservatives need that
why are you saying this is biased
against conservatives it's because of
the real content of your ideology and
the real form of social and political
change you're pursuing
which is hateful and violent abusive now
here's the kicker
please note I'm reading Mike reply here
please note that I am an anti-communist
and I'm a very vocal trenchant critic of
communism past and present but you have
to admit communists on patreon do not
seem to have these problems this is
something interesting for you to face up
to hmm so I did a quick google search
and I was able to find examples there's
one called
the communist current I'm sure I would
find it
morally despicable in the same way that
I find neo-nazis morally despicable
communists come on the internet and make
excuses for mass murder they justify
Joseph Stalin and Mao Zedong and Lenin
and the massacres those people committed
they present an economic ideology that I
also find immoral so on and so forth but
there's nevertheless something
interesting here it is possible for
communist extremists to come on patreon
and behave themselves within the limits
of these Terms of Service the form of
censorship that patreon impose on you
the standards and practices that are
required to have your product on the
Shelf of this grocery store there are
communists were able to do that but for
some reason you conservatives really
have a problem conforming to a rule
against hate speech and a separate a
separate rule against abuse and bullying
why is that why is it possible for
people to use this platform to preach
the ideology of Joseph Stalin and Mao
Zedong which I despise I totally reject
them to disagree with why is it that
they can make their case within these
rules and you can't make yours there's
something for you guys including sargon
of akkad
to look in the mirror and face up to